Code verification tutorial for TMS (#18281)
idaholab/moose: modules/doc/content/getting_started/examples_and_tutorials/tutorial03_verification/step03_analytical_solution.md

For the heat equation, as defined in [step02_fem_convergence.md], one such solution
shall be considered to verify a model. The verification process shall be broken into four parts:

1. Define a problem, with a known exact solution.
2. Simulate the problem.
3. Compute the error between the known solution and simulation.
4. Perform convergence study.

## Problem Statement

[!cite](incropera1996fundamentals) presents a one-dimensional solution for the heat equation as:

!equation id=tutorial03-analytical-solution
T(t,x) = T_0 + \frac{\dot{q}}{k} \Bigg\lbrack 2 \sqrt{\frac{\alpha t}{\pi}}
         \exp\bigg\lparen{\frac{-x^2}{4 \alpha t}}\bigg\rparen -
         x \bigg\lparen 1-\textrm{erf}\bigg\lparen\frac{x}{2\sqrt{\alpha t}} \bigg\rparen \bigg\rparen \Bigg\rbrack,

where $T$ is the temperature, $T_0$ is the initial temperature, $t$ is time, $x$ is position,
$\dot{q}$ is the heat source, $k$ is thermal conductivity, and $\alpha$ is the thermal diffusivity.

Thermal diffusivity is defined as the ratio of thermal conductivity ($k$) to the product of density ($\rho$)
and specific heat capacity ($c$). The system is subjected to Neumann boundary conditions at the

> left boundary ($x=0$) and the natural boundary condition on

Reviewer: natural = zero flux here? Natural could mean different things for FE FV

Author: added (zero flux)

> left boundary ($x=0$) and the natural boundary condition on

Author: ```suggestion
left boundary ($x=0$) and the natural boundary condition (zero flux) on
```

| $\dot{q}$    | 7E5   | $W\cdot m^{-3}$ |
| $k$          | 80.2  | $W\cdot m^{-1}\cdot K^{-1}$ |
| $\rho$       | 7800  | $kg\cdot m^{-3}$ |
| $c$          | 450   | $J\cdot kg^{-1}\cdot K^{-1}$ |
| $q_k(0,t)$   | 7E5   | $W\cdot m^{-2}$ |
| $q_k(0.03,t)$ | 0    | $W\cdot m^{-2}$ |

### Simulation Setup

The following instructions assumes that there is a working version of [!ac](MOOSE) installed
on the system, for information on getting it setup please refer to the
[install instructions](getting_started/installation/index.md).

The simulation to be performed relies on the heat conduction module, thus it is necessary to compile
that specific module. It is assumed that [!ac](MOOSE) was cloned into a directory named "projects"
within the home directory. With this assumption, the following commands will compile and test
the heat conduction module executable.

```bash
cd ~/projects/moose/modules/heat_conduction
make -j8
./run_tests -j8
```

The number used after the "-j" should be the number of processes available on your system. If tests
execute without failure, then the following sections should be followed to setup the simulation.

### Simulation Input

> [!ac](MOOSE) operates using input files, as such, an input file shall be detailed that is capable of

Reviewer: this is a lot of shall
it's fine for test specifications, but passive form shalls won't help the non-native readers

> [!ac](MOOSE) operates using input files, as such, an input file shall be detailed that is capable of

Author: ```suggestion
[!ac](MOOSE) operates using input files, as such, an input file is detailed below that is capable of
```

simulating this problem and its use demonstrated. This section will describe the various sections
of the input file that should be created for the current problem. The location of this input

> file is arbitrary, but it shall be assumed that the content below will be in a file named

Author: ```suggestion
file is arbitrary, but it is assumed that the content below will be in a file named
```

`~/projects/problems/verification/1d_analytical.i`. This file can be created and edited
using any text editor program.

Within this file, the domain of the problem is defined using the [Mesh System](syntax/Mesh/index.md)
using the `[Mesh]` block of the input file, as follows, which creates a one-dimensional mesh in the
$x$-direction from 0 to 0.03 $m$ using 200 elements.

!listing tutorial03_verification/step03_analytical/1d_analytical.i link=False block=Mesh

There is a single unknown, temperature ($T$), to compute. This unknown is declared using the
[Variables System](syntax/Variables/index.md) in the `[Variables]` block and used the default
configuration of a first-order Lagrange finite element variable. Note, within this block the name of
the variable is arbitrary; "T" was selected here to match the equation.

!listing tutorial03_verification/step03_analytical/1d_analytical.i link=False block=Variables

> The "volumetric" portions of the wak form are defined using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "volumetric" portions of the weak form are defined using the
```

are sampled along the length of the simulation. The $L_2$-norm as well as these line sampled values
are both output as CSV files for further analysis.

[tutorial03-simulation-results] shows the complete results, including the simulated solution,
the exact solution, and the absolute error as a function of simulation time.

!media tutorial03_verification/1d_analytical.mp4 id=tutorial03-simulation-results
       caption=Comparison of simulation results, the exact solution, and the computed absolute error
               for the one-dimensional heat equation.

## Convergence Studies

As shown in [tutorial03-simulation-results] the results obtained from the simulation seem to
agree well with the known solution. The results provide evidence that the finite element
calculations are being performed correctly. As is, the error shown could be due to a problem
with the finite element implementation. However, if the error is reduced at the expected rate
with decreasing mesh size and timestep size then it is reasonable that the finite element
formulation and temporal numerical integration are implemented correctly.

> [!ac](MOOSE) includes a python package---the `mms` package---for performing convergence studies, as
> such shall be used here. For details regarding the package, please refer to the [mms.md] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[!ac](MOOSE) includes a python package---the `mms` package---for performing convergence studies, which will be used here. For details regarding the package, please refer to the [mms.md] documentation.
```

### Spatial Convergence

> To perform a spatial convergence the input file create needs to be executed with decreasing element

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To perform a spatial convergence the input file created needs to be executed with decreasing element
```

size, which in [!ac](MOOSE) can be done by adding the `Mesh/uniform_refine=x` option to the
command line with "x" being an integer representing the number of refinements to perform.

> The `mms` package includes a function (`run_spatial`) for performing and automatically modifies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `mms` package includes a function (`run_spatial`) for performing and automatically modifying
```

> the supplied input file to perform increase levels of uniform refinement. After each run the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the supplied input file to perform increasing levels of uniform refinement. After each run the
```

results are collected into a `pandas.DataFrame` object, which can be used in the `ConvergencePlot`
object to create a plot.

> For example, for [tutorial03-analytical-spatial-code] results in spatial convergence plot shown in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, for [tutorial03-analytical-spatial-code] results of the spatial convergence study are shown as a plot in
```

!listing tutorial03_verification/step03_analytical/step03_study.py id=tutorial03-analytical-temporal-code
         caption=Example use of the `mms` package to run and plot temporal convergence.
         link=False start=MooseDocs:start:temporal end=MooseDocs:end:temporal include-start=False

The resulting convergence data indicate that the simulation is converging to the known solution
at the correct rate for second-order time integration, thus verifying that the numerical integration
scheme is operating as expected.

!media tutorial03_verification/1d_analytical_temporal.png
       id=tutorial03-analytical-temporal-graph
       caption=Results of the spatial convergence study comparing the finite element simulation with the known one-dimensional analytical solution.

## Closing Remarks

The analysis performed here provides three levels of verification: (1) the finite element solution
matches the known solution with minimal error, (2) the spatial error converges at the
expected rate for first-order finite elements, and (3) the temporal error converges at the
expected rate for second-order numerical integration. These results verify that the

> simulation is computing correctly for the 1D heat equation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simulation is correctly solving the 1D heat equation.
```
